one of the issues that I've spoken about
on this channel before and I know I'm
going to speak of it again it's the role
of mental disability and mental illness
within the vegan movement and we have an
incredible range so we were just talking
about autism schizophrenia all the way
over to disorders like bulimia and
anorexia within the chat group and we
had someone a few days ago here in the
digital vegan demi-monde I had someone
stabbed himself on camera an attempted
suicide while live streaming on the
internet and this particular guy who
stabbed himself up people in the recent
past before that happened asked me to
endorse and support his channel I get
those kind of request a lot people say
oh here's somebody there a new vegan
they mean well blah blah blah it's and
he's a nice guy is for this channel and
you got to make a judgment call if
you're in my position not just on their
intentions not just on their moral
principles on their commitment to
veganism or their you know how they
interface politically with the movement
or something with direction to move in
you know you got to make a judgment
based on their sanity based on their
reliability and there is certainly a
school of thought dominant in the world
today that have just been hearing from
my chat group that we should regard all
mental illness as equivalent to physical
illness and that we should in no way
stigmatize or judge people for serious
mental disabilities and you know what I
guess we call emotional disabilities for
serious mental disorders again from
bulimia to schizophrenia from you know
autism to I don't know let's throw in
dyslexia I mean there's this huge range
of things that are that fall into this
category ah that's a dream I'm not
willing to dream with you folks
you know why because we're talking about
politics we're talking about veganism as
a political movement and there are some
people who can't play this game if my
own brother had one of these serious
mental disabilities I had a serious
psychological disorder Scotch such as
schizophrenia etc would I recommend that
he get involved with party politics no
would I get recommend that he get
involve with lobbying City Hall no
doesn't matter most people with
schizophrenia there on and off
medication you know they have medication
that provides them with some degree of
stability for a time and then maybe they
encounter a problem and they try new
medication I understand these are
illnesses that in the modern Western
world in the decadent Western world
people have access to a variety of forms
of therapy and treatment they may or may
not be able to hold down a job they may
or may not be able to you know use the
time productively but of course they're
unreliable because they have that
underlying overriding mental and
psychological condition if you have
schizophrenia can you get involved in
snowboarding yes can you get involved in
a flag football yes I mean there's an
incredible list of wonderful things you
can do with your time can you get
involved with party politics no not
really your involvement is incredibly
limited can you get involved with
radical politics no absolutely not can
you get involved with fringe politics
can you get involved with animal rights
any college about no it's not a game you
should play and it's not just the case
of it being bad for the movement I think
it's bad for you it's bad for the person
themselves who has this condition and we
just talked about that in a very long
video very long sympathetic video where
I was giving advice to someone who
really suffers with bulimia so I'm you
know bulimia has different levels of
severity this is someone who's been in
and out of you know medical treatment
for bulimia asking me about whether or
not she should get involved here with
YouTube with the digital veendum on and
it's a long video it's a long open-ended
discussion but the final conclusion is
no I think this is not for you
and there's a whole range of reasons for
that including the really negative
impact this could have on her life right
now oh there's another side to this
story that some of us have lived through
and still remember in just the last two
years some people such as durianrider
have come on the internet and not only
encouraged these people to join the
movement joey said he evolved veganism
but they've promised them that veganism
will give them the magical superpower to
quit their meds okay so durianrider has
a coherent philosophy partly based on
his own claims his claims that he cured
his own psychological problems that he
cured his own physical medical problems
that if you follow his advice on diet
exercise and sleep you can kill yourself
you can recover from even severe mental
disorders like schizophrenia and
including schizophrenia and I've pointed
out in the past during writer himself
has directly said he was diagnosed as a
schizophrenic he's also said he was
diagnosed as having anorexia okay so
that's not an allegation on my part
those are things he said to himself and
we all got to see one young man who uses
the youtube name pal simian we all got
to see how he for many months was
posting videos in support of during
writers philosophy and this philosophy
is partly based on questioning or
rejecting the medicalization of these
mental disorders themselves it's partly
based on a dismissal of how real you
know a condition like schizophrenia may
be and it's partly based on a reckless
optimism about self diagnosis
self-healing food as medicine of
overcoming all boundaries through
veganism itself of veganism becoming
this mega cure and so far as I can see
just from his YouTube channel I have no
private information we got to see pal
simian go through a period when he was
elated and highly motivated and he
obviously felt he was he was overcoming
his serious mental disorders and then we
got to see him collapse we got to see
him get committed to a mental
institution
and the videos deleted now but he
actually uploaded videos of himself in
the mental institution and at that time
he said on camera that he was diagnosed
with schizophrenia that may not be
correct but that is what he said on
camera at that time or he may have had a
later diagnosis he may have had a first
diagnosis and littered in US but just
say it's not an allegation that is
something he said about himself at the
time on camera and again may be wrong he
may have Jim he may have just been
freestyling he may have misspoken but it
also may have been a diagnosis of those
place because he is later told me that
his current diagnosis is not
schizophrenia so good I'm happy for you
man but he's someone who obviously had
serious psychological problems involving
serious medication and from that point
forward apparently he was back on the
medication okay um politics is nasty I
can remember one incident especially
when when i was doing this really low
level political activism at city hall
well you know people said things to me
to try to make me cry it sounds
ridiculous are you doing like ecological
advocacy davis video people say mean
cruel stuff to you face to face because
when you have a real open democratic
process one of the main questions is
just whether or not you show up well not
you get people to show up at that
meeting so they make the meetings hard
to find hard to attend and very often
the people involved will be insulting
and degrading to you once you're there
you have an open meeting on government
policy on sewage treatment a very small
number of people are going to show up
and be heard you know there's maybe one
professor from the University use an
expert in sewage treatment and there's a
guy like me and there are a couple other
people who make the time to go and give
a deposition and be heard in that
democratic process one of the best ways
they have to control that process is
just insulting you it's just denigrating
just trying to hurt your feelings and a
lot of people mentally emotionally
psychologically I'll with that they
would freak out a punch someone out they
lose their temper maybe that's what they
want they want you to get kicked out of
City Hall they want you get banned from
the premises or something you know I've
given a lot of examples on here in the
past of you know within the Green Party
because the
party attracts some people who are
eccentric at best and may have serious
mental disorders in Canada and you know
the same way that in that recent video
was warning somebody with bulimia that
the emotional damage and even the
economic damage the effect on your
ability to get a job the damage it will
do to you coming on YouTube and engaging
in these these discussions you know you
need to take that seriously real life
politics can be very very nasty just
emotionally just verbally and a lot of
people I me know you guys know I have
the self-confidence to come here and sit
in front of a camera do you have the
self-confidence to go to a meeting a
high-pressure meeting at City Hall sit
down at a boardroom table or sit down at
a podium and speak to a crowd not
everyone does you know for some people
that in itself is going to be a you know
emotionally harrowing and what have you
this is not flag football this is not
snowboarding this is not skiing this is
not the school audio-video club this is
politics this is a political movement
whether or not you want it to be whether
or not you think it should be whether or
not it's successful whether or not it's
a failure this may be the world's worst
joke of a political movement but it's
still a political movement it's mostly
successful political movement it's still
a political movement right and there are
strictures here there are standards
people have to live up to to really
participate and yes this context it's
real it's this is not a good game to
play if you have psychological problems
emotional problems if you have a mental
disability and I've said this many times
before you know people seem to think
that stupidity is something inert and
unmoving and harmless like a rock or
like an ugly statue in your office you
don't particularly like you know as a
decorative statue in the corner of the
decade of statue on your desk you don't
really like but you can ignore it you
can work around it whether it's a rock
on the road or a statue and yes you can
work around it you can ignore it right
so people like to think about stupidity
stupidity is fast-moving and destructive
and dangerous
it's like a small fire in the garbage
can next to your desk if you ignore it
can destroy everything quick and it's
unpredictable maybe you don't see it
coming maybe I don't see how it's moving
um it can disrupt and destroy everything
you're trying to accomplish and yes you
know people have reasons for why they do
stupid things and in some sense many
people have reasons for why they are
stupid I mean you know if you are born
with a mental disability I know it's
unpopular and it's insulting and crude
to call that person stupid if you're
talking about someone who is not capable
of thinking rationally because they have
an emotional disability or intellectual
disability or a serious psychological
disorder like schizophrenia nobody wants
to be insulting because we know it's not
a choice we know they didn't choose to
be this way but it's still dangerous the
same guy who stabbed himself on camera a
few days ago could stab somebody else
tomorrow that kind of erratic violent
behavior is not a joke the same guy pal
Simeon who quit his meds and had a
psychological breakdown and punched out
another guy in England before he was
taken by the police and put into an
asylum what do you think you think he's
reliable do you think you'd hire him to
be a babysitter do you think you'd hire
him to work on the police force do you
think a tired to work on the fire
department do you think he's the guy you
want giving a deposition at City Hall
this game we play is not fair it's not
open everybody it's not and you know
football is also not fair and basketball
is also not fair different people are
going to have different advantages and
disadvantages in these games okay and my
role is to be honest about that and
there are other people who are not just
being dishonest and are not just
enabling people with serious cyclist or
there are people who are making money
by selling them a fake cure and by
claiming that veganism is going to solve
those problems for you the veganism
means you can quit your meds leading to
an even more dangerous downward spiral
not just for that individual before the
movement as a whole okay because one
person in your party who acts up at
Parliament one person your party who has
a psychological meltdown or sizzling
ridiculous at city hall at the Senate at
your protest you have a you have a stage
and somebody gets up at the microphone
to speak one little minor mental
breakdown it can discredit everything
you've been working towards for years I
was taught just like everyone else as a
child to dream the dream that we're all
equal as an adult I had to learn instead
that you should treat other people as
equal because it's virtuous because it's
kind because it's morally good to do so
but we're not equal and we have to have
the capacity in our organizations to
recognize and hopefully politely
hopefully that he break anyone's heart
deal with those inequalities in a way
that's constructive and cooperative and
that neither proceeds from the delusion
that nobody has these problems and it
also doesn't proceed from the delusion
that veganism is going to solve all
these problems